Well, welcome to this month's August 2018 edition here of Ask Your Herb Doctor.
We're calling live or we're receiving people live here from 7 till 8 p.m.
The show runs every third Friday of the month.
From 7.30 till the end of the show at 8 o'clock, we invite callers to phone in with questions about the topic
that's opened up for that month or if they have other questions related to Dr. Peat's expertise,
they're also invited to call in.
Wherever possible, I'd like to stay on topic because I do get people from various forums commenting on how
sometimes some people's questions seem to take the thing completely off topic
and I know people really enjoy listening to Dr. Peat's wisdom and they possibly don't like too much
blathering on from other questions that take up a lot of time.
But anyway, it's an open society and the program is run purely with the altruistic intention of benefiting people
with impartial advice and knowledge on how to find the truth in this situation in medicine.
It's not always easy.
The number here if you live in the area is 923 3911 and the area code is 707.
So if you'd like to call in with questions from 7.30 onwards, we'd love to hear from you.
So 707 923 3911.
My name is Andrew Murray and I studied a degree in herbal medicine back in England, graduated in '98
and have been living here in California since 2000 and run a business called Western Botanical Medicine
where my training in naturopathic medicine brought me to a love and appreciation of natural healing.
Natural and organic, of course, two go hand in hand.
And that brings me to the subject, the opening subject of tonight's discourse on critical thinking in academia
with relation to trials.
But what I wanted to first open up with, and I will introduce Dr. Peat here in about five minutes
once I've just finished through the opening statements of this show,
related to the latest court ruling on glyphosate's implication and its cancer-causing effects
that have been finally made public.
So everyone knows Monsanto probably, the big bad corporation, mega corporation,
owning the seeds and patenting the seeds, owning plant material for the first time ever back in the '90s
when they genetically modified various species of very lucrative world-consumed products like corn and soy, etc.
to provide to and protect the starving third world because it would provide these genetically modified plants
that would do better in drought conditions and which they could heavily spray with their own branded herbicide
called Roundup, of which the main ingredient was glyphosate.
So I want to just open up by quoting an interdisciplinary toxicological paper published in 2013 about celiac disease,
mentioning that celiac and the more common gluten intolerance being a growing problem worldwide,
but especially in North America and Europe, where an estimated 5% of the population now suffers from it.
Symptoms include nausea, diarrhea, skin rashes, macrositic anemia and depression.
And it's a multifactorial disease associated with numerous nutritional deficiencies as well as reproductive issues
and increased risk to thyroid disease, kidney failure and cancer.
And they propose that glyphosate, the active ingredient in herbicide Roundup,
is the most important causal factor in this epidemic.
Fish exposed to glyphosate develop digestive problems that are reminiscent of celiac disease,
and celiac disease associated with imbalances in gut bacteria
that can be fully explained by the known effects of glyphosate on gut bacteria.
Characteristics of celiac disease point to impairment in many cytochrome P450 enzymes,
which are involved with detoxifying environmental toxins, and as well as activating vitamin D3,
catabolizing vitamin A, and maintaining bioacid production and sulfate supplies to the gut.
Glyphosate is known to inhibit cytochrome P450 enzymes,
and deficiencies in iron, cobalt, molybdenum, copper and other rare metals associated with celiac disease
can be attributed to glyphosate's strong ability to chelate these elements.
Deficiencies in tryptophan, tyrosine, methionine, and selenomethionine
associated with celiac disease match glyphosate's known depletion of these amino acids.
In celiac disease, patients have an increased risk to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma,
which has also been implicated in glyphosate exposure.
Reproductive issues associated with celiac disease, such as infertility, miscarriages,
and birth defects can also be explained by glyphosate.
Glyphosate residues in wheat and other crops are likely increasing recently
due to the growing practice of crop desiccation just prior to the harvest.
We argue that the practice of ripening sugar cane with glyphosate may explain the recent surge
in kidney failure among agricultural workers in Central America,
as written by the authors of this paper in, as I said,
the Interdisciplinary Toxicological Report published in December 2013.
And a second source stated, "Analyzing samples from a 2017 prospective study,
University of California San Diego School of Medicine,
they found that human exposure to glyphosate, a chemical widely found in wheat killers,
has increased approximately 500% since the introduction of genetically modified crops
like Monsanto's Roundup Ready corn and other 'terminator' species like soy, canola,
alfalfa, cotton, and sorghum."
The term 'terminator' refers not to the movie by Schwarzenegger,
but to the fact that these Roundup Ready varieties are sterile,
and so farmers are locked into purchasing the latest seed source from Monsanto,
holding companies instead of breeding their own.
And the FDA only recently started testing for glyphosate,
this is interesting, a chemical that has been used for over 40 years in food production,
which in and of itself is cause for suspicion,
and it has only been on the California Prop 65 list since 2015.
But it has drawn attention to itself over several decades from plaintiffs
whose occupation involved the regular administration of the chemical.
And separately, FDA chemist Narong Chamkasam found
over-the-tolerance levels of glyphosate in corn detected at 6.5 parts per million,
and an FDA email states the legal limit is 5 parts per million.
An illegal level would normally be reported to the EPA,
but an FDA supervisor wrote to an EPA official that the corn was not considered an official sample.
Chamkasam found glyphosate in numerous samples of honey.
Chamkasam also found glyphosate in oatmeal products.
The FDA temporarily suspended testing after those findings,
and Chamkasam's lab was reassigned to other programs.
So how does science become corrupt, and how can we protect ourselves from corrupt science?
So we're very pleased to have Dr. Peat with us here on the show.
Dr. Peat, you there?
Yes, hi.
Okay, well thanks so much for joining again.
And for those people who perhaps have not heard of you or heard of your background to speak on these subjects,
would you mind giving people an update on your previous history, your academic and research background?
My biology study was, academically at least, was at the University of Oregon, 1968 to '72,
biology and biochemistry, especially reproductive physiology.
Since then I've been just continuing to study primarily with interest in nerve biology,
reproductive physiology, and especially aging and how it relates to energy production.
Okay, so I know in the past we've mentioned this, some of your confrontations, as it were, within academia,
and you've worked closely within the university institutions,
and you've got first-hand knowledge of the chain of corruption.
Would you describe your experience in detail, this chain of corruption's command base and its strategy,
and how this begins at the academic level and travels all the way through to final product and the ideology behind it?
Long before I went to the university, I had been interested in many biological fields,
especially radiation poisoning from the various sources, especially atomic bomb testing in the atmosphere.
As I got interested in the late '40s and all through the '50s in reading about what was available
before the atomic bomb took over the field and then after the government
and its Atomic Energy Commission began controlling the publication,
I saw that anyone basically after sometime in the 1950s, anyone who was working in biology or radiation physics
who told the truth had a big campaign organized against the person.
One of the first researchers who studied the harmful effects of radiation and got it into the media
found that X-raying pregnant women caused the fetus to be genetically injured
in a way that increased the rate of cancer in children.
It took about 10 years for that to be somewhat recognized
and decreased the radiation exposure of pregnant women.
But the government was essentially censoring everything that was published
and ruining the careers of all of the researchers who spoke out against the dangers of radiation.
My main concern with an apparently very bright and confident biologist and physicist
who was speaking the government line was John Goffman.
I considered him the ultimate in corrupt mouth-piecing for the government all through the '50s.
And in the '60s, suddenly he described the event.
He said he was talking to a group, speaking the government line,
saying that we can't intervene to stop the bomb tests and exposing the public
because we don't know yet whether the radiation exposures will cause serious or lethal mutations
that might even kill the whole population from cancer at some point.
He said as he was speaking, he realized that he was saying insane things,
that he had been saying them for 15, 20 years at that point.
But suddenly when that dawned on him that he was saying criminally insane things,
he suddenly switched sides and began honest investigation of the effects of radiation on the organism.
Immediately his research money was cut off.
He was fired and went into private publicizing of the problems for the rest of his life.
He did very good work exposing the critterness all the way back to the way that the radiation exposure
to the atomic bomb survivors in Japan, the figures on that were completely falsified right down to recent years.
The fake data has been put into the journals prominently.
And one of the ways that they operate is for example, the radiation health journals,
supposedly are scientists watching out for the public safety in exposing them to medical x-rays
or nuclear power plant leakage exposure and so on.
These journals, all of them that I have known of, were basically owned by the nuclear industry.
The public health organizations that are concerned with protecting the public,
these are agencies of the industry, government, nuclear industry,
work together to control the publication of safety information.
When I was in graduate school, our lab working on reproductive physiology,
the director decided we should have a course in radiation safety in case someone was going to work on isotope studies.
So we went, the whole lab went over to Oregon State University where they had a full time radiation safety expert.
And he and his graduate students did presentations on what we should know about radiation dangers and safety.
And I have never seen a university operate at such a low level as that radiation lab did at the State University.
It's considered the land grant university.
And the biology department is heavily influenced by agriculture, chemistry, herbicides, insecticides and so on.
But apparently the nuclear industry got to them too.
So maybe he wasn't being so safe with it, making it out to be a fairly harmless substance,
perhaps that you shouldn't all worry about too much.
Basically, taking the line that there's a threshold below which it's totally safe or even beneficial.
Yeah, I'm surprised he didn't actually eat some in front of you just to show you how harmless it was.
Yeah. One of their main lines of argument is that in those small doses, it's supposed to be good for you.
The Atomic Energy Commission called their project Project Sunshine.
That sounds nice, doesn't it?
OK, you're listening to Ask Herb, Dr. Kamey DeGarboville, 91.1 FM and from 730 to the end of the show.
People are invited to call in the questions related or hopefully related to this month's subject of the truth within research and critical thinking.
A lot of what I'm going to be asking here is based actually on Dr. Peate's recent newsletter about critical thinking,
where he opens up discussion on many different topics that we've brought up in the past.
And he's written about fairly prolifically from estrogen scandals, the SSRI scandals,
various scandals around other well-known drugs that, you know, whether it's Viagra through to the ADD medications,
which are essentially amphetamines for children and how these things actually come to market is quite untenable.
But obviously, it's very successful. It's untenable when you think about it like a critical thinking person,
but quite successful in terms of the cover ups that are made and the people that are paid off.
And Dr. Peate, I wanted to question you specifically about several points of this, of which I understand you do have personal experience.
I think that perhaps not the donor interest side of it, because you've not been a donor or received donor funding, perhaps,
but freedom, you mentioned that freedom to do research is restricted by many and the same forces that shape publication.
I think people need to hear this in terms of the mechanisms by which supposedly, quote, unquote,
respected peer reviewed journal publications or prestigious publications, the New England Journal of Medicine or, yeah,
some of the other publications that people will be fairly familiar with.
How these publications come into being and the funding that is so lucrative and so seducing for both the editors
and other people in charge of the publications, how is this freedom to do the research?
And it actually shapes the publication itself because of the ownership of the publication.
It's the same thing, the same companies that control funding, even though it might be coming from the government and taxpayers.
The culture is set by the industry and the government operating in the NIH, for example,
are conforming to the beliefs that are favorable to the industry.
Gilbert Ling happened to have one person in the funding oversight branch of the NIH.
His whole career depended on one person thinking that that objective research should continue in the area he was working on.
But when that person retired, his funding was cut off.
Same thing happened to the virus researcher.
I can't think of his name right now. He was very famous as working in the retrovirus field
when he suggested that the HIV/AIDS so-called virus might not be harmful at all.
His research money was totally cut off and he was ostracized.
Even in something as safe-seeming as astronomy, a famous astronomer named Halton Arp was doing various studies of galaxies.
He happened to photograph some galaxies that were obviously continuous.
There was a band of matter between separate galaxies.
There were no breaks in the line, but one galaxy showed a very different redshift from the other galaxy.
You can't have a single object connected by a band of matter.
You can't have one end of it going at a vast speed away from the other one.
He found several of those connected galaxies with very different redshifts,
which essentially proved that the idea that the redshift indicates acceleration away from the viewer,
that concept must be wrong because single objects had different redshifts.
So they cut off his access to the telescopes so that he couldn't ever use them again.
He had to leave the country if he wanted to use the telescope again.
You also mentioned things like these wars on various lucrative diseases.
We've heard about the War on Terror and how that's been a complete failure,
and the War on Cancer, another complete failure.
These are basically brought to the front as a battle cry for funding, being a war,
but they never objectively result in too much success.
I can think of a number of conditions or diseases for which there's been a long time of potential time to find a cure,
but which nothing really has been found,
and which there is still a seemingly endless supply of funding to promote research into its discovery, into the cure.
The people who want to wage those wars and convince the government to fund them,
working in particular theories of how diseases work, whether it's heart disease and atherosclerosis,
dementia or cancer, kidney disease, whatever major field they're working in,
it always happens that the researchers love the line of research that happens to enrich the drug companies.
They're always aiming at some solution that involves a drug that can sustain patients.
Definitely, they don't want to cure the patients at a low price.
They want to develop drugs to keep the customers buying.
And then also the other quote here, what I know you've said is completely erroneous science,
and again I'm going to want to bring out a little later on that the information's been there
and was being followed six or seven decades ago,
but was buried when corporations began to exert their financial clout.
You mentioned the tumor-specific chemotherapy,
the kind of tailored, tailor-made, personalized tumor-specific chemotherapy for particular cancers,
and how you said that's completely ridiculous to think of it mechanistically like that,
because it just does not make any scientific sense.
Yeah, the traditional approach to medicine, way back to the Greeks,
they were looking for general principles that would go wrong and be correctable,
and their approach was diet or exercise or herbs or particular drugs.
These were designed to adjust the person's constitution
and make their physiology go in a healthy direction rather than a sick direction.
That is still scientifically valid.
It's really the only practical solution to all of these major degenerative chronic diseases,
figuring out what it is as a general problem that causes basically everyone to go down one
or more of these degenerative pathways.
But although it's the primary scientific problem in biology,
that is constantly being attacked as unscientific.
What they want is a mechanism that potentially leads to a drug,
a specific drug for a specific mechanism,
and preferably it will be so variable and unpredictable
that it will require a great diagnostic effort,
more drugs involved to diagnose the particular brand of cancer or heart disease
or dementia that the person has,
and then a particular individually designed treatment for that.
If you're actually working on the idea that the organism is intrinsically whole and healthy
and that certain things are diverting it from the pathway of good health,
that is where biological generality should be the basis of scientific thinking.
But that competes and so it's considered pre-scientific or unscientific
if you try to look at the organism as a whole and something that can be supported
to make it either not get the disease or spontaneously recover from the disease.
Okay, let's hold it there for a moment, Dr. Peat.
It is 7.30 and so from now until the end of the show at 8 o'clock,
people that tuned in are invited to call in with questions
hopefully related to the discourse we're having about the "meaningful" research that's done
and the studies outcomes and how they are skewed and corrupted often,
but how we can find good information that is objective.
And I know we have a caller on the line, so let's take this first caller.
Caller, where are you from and what's your question?
My name is John from Buffalo.
Okay, John, what's your question?
I actually was listening to a previous broadcast on endotoxins
and remembering Dr. Peat talking about the incredible falsified research
relating to fish oils and the seed oils back in the '50s or '40s.
And that particular show spoke about endotoxins in detail,
and I was trying to ask a question actually about digestion,
particularly as you age, get over 50.
Even if you eat like cooked vegetables, highly cooked,
I know you've mentioned that's okay, or cooked meat,
and then everything else dairy, which supposedly is easy to digest,
my understanding is that enzymes from the foods,
which are typically designed to digest them, are destroyed by cooking.
So if your HCL or your digestive enzymes in the body are missing,
it seems like no matter what you do,
you're going to be more exposed as you age to endotoxins.
I was just wondering what your view is on taking digestive enzymes
or HCL or pepsin or pancreatic enzymes,
and how would you know which ones to take to try to optimize digestion,
which would thereby reduce or minimize the endotoxin exposure
that is so prevalent, particularly with age?
So Dr. Peat, how would you detail or I won't say diagnose,
but how would you know that somebody was having digestive disturbance
or how would they describe that to you in such a way
as may make you feel they are compromised somewhat,
and what's your view on digestive enzymes as a solution?
First, two problems with products.
The pancreatic enzymes are very much like our own enzymes
and can be very effective for someone who is deficient in enzymes.
Stress and aging often slow down the digestive process
so they can benefit from using pancreatic enzymes.
However, they are made from raw animal tissue.
You can't get the enzymes out without sterilizing it.
If you sterilize it, the enzymes are inactivated,
so you take the risk of whatever infection the animal had.
There are a couple of plant enzymes, papain and bromelain,
which I think are pretty safe, but they only digest proteins.
The non-animal enzymes that digest fats and carbohydrates
happen to come from a fungus,
and there is the risk of allergens from the fungus with those enzymes.
So I think the best approach is to keep your energy and nutrition up
so that your own stomach and pancreas and intestine and liver
produce the proper enzymes for digesting
and that you consider the chemistry of the plant.
Some of the enzymes, if you chew a raw vegetable, for example,
or a seed or a sprout, for example,
these enzymes that are released are in many cases,
their function is as a defensive enzyme for the plant.
The plant doesn't want to be chewed up,
and it can release toxins, for example.
If you chew up raw bean sprouts or alfalfa sprouts,
you can get a big burst of toxins.
I think someone calculated that something like three ounces of alfalfa sprouts
would release a lethal dose of cyanide if you chewed them up.
I guess I was thinking, based on studying previously,
that you're talking about cooked vegetables being okay.
So if I have root vegetables or different leaves
and you cook the daylights out of them for 40 minutes and they're really soft,
then they become a good food, right?
So the issue that you're talking about, I assume, goes away completely,
plus the PUFA is taken out so that it has nutritional value.
Am I right?
Yeah.
If you process vegetables properly, you can get very good nutrition out of them.
But cows and goats, rubens, are designed to do that for us.
And so milk and cheese are basically detoxified plant nutrition.
And to do that industrially, it's very possible, and there are people working on it.
But to get all of the PUFA out is one problem.
To get the right ratio of nutrients is another problem.
Leaves, for example, have very good content of calcium and magnesium and other nutrients.
So cows can thrive on a leaf-based diet because they have enzymes to detoxify the PUFA.
But other parts of the plant have a bad ratio of phosphate to calcium and magnesium.
And so you have to look at the ratio of type of fat and type of mineral.
You don't want too much iron or too much phosphate or too much unsaturated fat.
Those are pro-stress, pro-aging chemicals.
Dr. Peat, what do you think about the--as we're talking about digestion and this call is wondering what can be done.
In terms of the herbal pharmacopoeia, using herbs like dandelion root as a cologog,
as a liver stimulant to support bile production to emulsify fats,
and the bitter compounds in plants like gentian and absinthe for stimulating hydrochloric acid production,
as well as pepsin and other things in the stomach.
Yeah, that's an extremely valuable use of herbal remedies is to stimulate--
--on gentian?
Yeah, gentian, the greater gentian, but there's also the lesser gentian depending on how--
the greater gentian probably has the stronger effect.
But yeah, there's lots of different herbal bitters.
I mean, some are called hot bitters, some are aromatic bitters, and some are pure bitters.
So things like absinthe even, which is that wormwood which is put in drinks now is not banned anymore.
It's legal, but essentially was a bitter to support stomach acid production.
Anyway--
So gentian, you would stimulate HCL and pepsin production in the body?
Because you could take that plus the pep and bromelain and maybe those are the best you can do,
and then you just have to keep your energy up.
Yeah, well--
And the aroma of food is extremely important.
Yeah, there you go.
If you don't enjoy your food or if you're anxious while you're eating it, you will mess up your digestive secretion.
And keeping the stress down too, correct?
Yeah.
Yeah, good.
Let's take the next caller, though, because I appreciate your caller, your call, John.
And let's move on to the next caller.
Caller, you're on the air.
Where are you from?
Hello, I'm calling from Garberville.
Oh, okay.
What's your name?
Mike.
I've got a couple of pieces of information that I've been collecting.
Okay.
About 15 years ago in--oh, down south of San Francisco in a very exclusive electronic show,
I saw something called 3D computer-enhanced ultrasound that showed bones perfectly without radiation.
And then the other one I had for you people is the ancient Sumerians.
I believe they were the first to put in--you know, put up a writing system.
They wrote about hemp root extract for epilepsy, for balancing the immune system, and I'm now tracing it.
It is available, but this never gets out there.
Oh, and another one was many years ago my health was saved by ancient Tibetan acupuncture,
not the modern version with all the needles, very few needles, very effective.
Good.
Thank you for your call, Mike.
That's my information.
Thank you.
Dr. Peay, have you ever heard of 3D-enhanced ultrasound?
I don't recall exactly, but there are instruments that can, for example, detect cavities in teeth much better than X-rays using ultrasound
and it does give you a three-dimensional picture of the tooth and its insides.
And a company in Washington announced that they were coming out with this technology,
but something has come up and they say it won't be available for a few years anyway.
Okay.
Let's take the next caller.
Caller, you're on the air.
What's your name and where are you from?
Hi there.
You can call me Guy.
I'm another one from Garboville.
I can barely hear you on the phone.
Okay.
Well, Karen, what's your question, caller?
You mentioned glyphosate earlier in your talk.
I want to talk specifically about that.
I've had some recent unfortunate exposure due to an employment that I had of some pretty highly concentrated stuff.
And once exposed, what would you recommend to possibly prevent any prolonged effects from the exposure?
Yeah.
I'm not too sure of its toxicology.
Apparently, when you look at the monograph of glyphosate, it seems, quote/unquote, "readily excreted" and "rapidly excreted."
So in terms of actually protecting somebody who's been exposed to it, I would imagine that any of the routes of elimination,
either through the urine or the feces, you'd imagine that increasing that digestive output,
sorry, the output from the digestive tract if you swallowed it or you've absorbed it through your skin,
either through the kidneys or through the bowels, supporting that would be important.
And then obviously, my mind goes to things like liver and supportives for the liver, things like milk thistle and schizandra, other detoxifying.
Yeah. You had mentioned dandelion, too.
And that was in relation to the previous call about digestion and dandelion root has traditionally been used to promote bile in the liver
and storage in the gallbladder so that when it's needed, it's released and fats can be emulsified.
So that's dandelion.
Okay. So that's not necessarily applicable.
Not really, no. I would imagine more speeding up the process of elimination by supporting the gut and the urinary output and supporting.
Okay. And would that apply to, would you think, like most other chemical toxins like 2,4-D, for instance?
Yeah, pretty much because essentially they have to be excreted somehow in order to rid yourself of it.
So unfortunately, some of these things are taken up by the bone marrow or sequestered elsewhere in the system in tissues or fat,
especially as a quote unquote good source of these toxins.
And we mentioned in the past things like the polyunsaturates are readily taken up by the fat cells and released later on to cause the damage.
But Dr. Peter, do you have any, how would you want to go about it perhaps if you knew somebody had been exposed to high levels of a toxin like this,
what would your approach to elimination be?
A lot of the insecticides and herbicides are oil soluble such as 2,4-D.
But glyphosate luckily is water soluble, but it comes in the products Roundup and Touchdown, I think they are.
And what if you mix 2,4-D with diesel fuel?
It's still oil soluble.
Yeah, but when it gets in your body, it tends to stay in your brain and fat, the oil in your body.
And glyphosate luckily, even though it is a nerve transmitter disruptor, it luckily is not oil soluble.
So it leaves the body quickly, but it leaves behind damage such as genetic damage, mitochondrial damage and nerve disruption.
So I think if you think that you have accumulated some of the chemicals that were in Roundup or Touchdown other than the glyphosate,
then things that will turn over your fat metabolism safely, adding vitamin E for example, protects you as you detoxify the fats.
Otherwise, it's a matter of keeping your energy up so you can restore the slightly injured mitochondria, nerves, kidneys, whatever were affected as the glyphosate passed through.
I can definitely say there has been a definite downturn in my general energy levels since being exposed.
I just kind of chalk it up to, well, my body is fighting back, but thank you for your advice.
You're welcome.
Vitamin E, thyroid, aspirin and some of the protective steroids like pregnenolone and DHEA and progesterone can protect against many of those environmental oil soluble toxins.
Okay, good. We've got two more callers who want to pose questions to you Dr. Peat.
Dr. Peat, would you get a little closer to the microphone? I've been told by the engineer that your voice is very quiet and you've been turned right up to max.
So let's take this next caller. Where are you from and what's your name?
Hi, my name is Alex and I'm calling from New Hampshire.
Okay, Alex, what's your question?
I have a question about taking thyroid hormone, T3 versus T4.
I've been taking about 60 micrograms of T3 spaced out every hour in six microgram doses and T4 in the evening.
I was wondering whether if I take too much T4, would some of that turn into reverse T3 because there's T3 present in the bloodstream or is that something I really shouldn't worry about?
Because I haven't been able to get my body temperatures above about 97 and a half.
Okay, so Dr. Peat, the person is taking six microgram doses, presumably ten of them if he's using 60 micrograms a day,
and he wants to know whether or not there's any issue with the T4 that he would take being turned into reverse T3
and he doesn't seem to have his body temperature responding the way it should do to thyroid hormone.
Yeah, it's possible if you're under stress, for example, cortisol and adrenaline can shift the metabolism of T4 into reverse T3.
But I would check your general nutrition, make sure you're having seafood about once a week because selenium is the most crucial nutrient for making sure you're converting T4 as needed.
Your brain and kidneys and skin, every tissue has the equipment for converting T4 to T3, but it needs selenium to do that.
And then mushrooms are a good source of selenium. Do you have any others?
Yeah.
Yeah. Okay, so that was the answer. Thank you, Cora. We have another caller on the line, so let's get this next caller in.
Caller, where are you from and what's your question?
Hi, I'm from the local area. Dr. Peat, I was curious, I asked you about a year ago to look into the monk fruit sugar and I'll take my answer off the air.
So what was the question? You're still asking about monk fruit sugar? Okay. So Dr. Peat, have you heard anything about monk fruit sugar?
Yes, I read about it. I don't remember exactly what it is though.
Okay. All right, well, no problem. If anybody else would like to call in between now and 5 to 8, you're welcome. The number here is 707-923-3911.
Otherwise, we'll carry on where we started in the beginning of the show.
As a Dr. Peat, I was going to say, again, you've explained the things like donor interests and how the wars on various lucrative diseases have failed us and now the whole personalized tumor specific chemotherapy is such a failure.
I was going to ask you here that the whole, how it all happens, you know, how does science come to the mainstream?
We know it's all about advertising. We know it's all about generating revenue and we know all about powerful interests that are certainly not going to do themselves a disservice by producing or printing damning trials that show no benefit or potential harm.
And the entire Hippocratic Oath, which most doctors or every doctor should take and most doctors we should thoroughly believe in first do no harm should certainly be first and foremost in their minds.
But obviously, most doctors that are practicing want to help people but don't have the time to look into the science behind the things that they're prescribing.
And as the medical schools are indoctrinated by drug reps and the money that comes from supporting these drugs in terms of private sponsorships or gifts, quote unquote, to various professors in medical schools, for example, all of this becomes very easily corrupted.
And I wanted to mention the open access movement as being a alternative to this donor funded publication machine, which I think produces so much negative, negative press really in terms of when it's uncovered from drugs that were supposedly designed to help people.
Let me just ask first, I think I saw the lights flashing a couple of times. I don't know if there are anybody else waiting for us. Engineer, do we have any callers? Does the engineer hear me?
Okay, the engineer is looking down into space as though he can't hear anything. Anyway, Dr. Peat, the open access movement, do you do you know much about that? And do you think it's a valid institution?
Because I did find an article by Jeffrey Beal writing in the American Association of University Professors stating that the advocates of open access tell only one side of the story and ignoring the exploitative practices and poor quality of many open access journals.
What do you have much feedback or much to say about open access? He, Jeffrey Beal made some good points about the possible corruption of the open access by simply turning it into sort of a personal advertising thing for researchers who aren't doing anything of special value,
but want to go on record as having publications for the university, for example.
So they pay a publisher to publish something even though it's junk. So open access, as it's false, can be just an expansion of the advertising industry.
But even advertising, it isn't required that advertisers lie about their product. Sometimes they might tell the truth. And so open access is susceptible to being used as personal advertising.
But if you read critically, you can often find very good stuff in it. The Public Library of Science so far has had a really good record of getting novel information out to the public that would have been censored by the regular old fashioned journals that are owned or controlled by the industry.
All right. The Public Library of Science, folks, worth taking a look at if you've never heard of it. We do have two more callers here who want to ask questions. So let's get them in fairly quickly here. Next caller. You're on the air. What's your name and what's your question?
Where you from? We'll see. Go ahead. You're on the air. Where you from? What's your question? Caller, this is why I ask you to listen on your phone. Three, two, one. Okay. Let's drop that call and make a call back. So next caller, you're on the air. Where you from? What's your question?
Whoops. Last caller. That was probably my fault. Next caller, you're on. Yeah. Hi. I had a question about living up in a high rise and what are the health effects of that? Well, I'm not too sure about any negative health effects other than...
Actually, it's been reported that the number of heart attacks and strokes are higher and it's suspected that it's due to the fact that you're farther away from the Earth's magnetic field. I would imagine the stress of living in high rise could be a cause. Dr. Peate, what do you...
There are some good studies just within the state of New Mexico and going from, I think it was 2,000 to 5,000 in steps of 1,000 feet. They saw that heart attacks and mortality from heart disease decreased with each step up in altitude.
And for over 100 years, the insurance companies have known about the benefits of living in a very high altitude. Statistics show that the cancer, for example, mortality is much lower as you go higher in altitude.
And there are several changes. For example, there's more ultraviolet light increasing your vitamin D. Your thyroid hormone tends to shift to the T3 active form and the lower oxygen pressure, once you're adapted, makes you retain carbon dioxide in your body because the exchange in your lungs
oxygen pushes carbon dioxide out of your body as it enters. But high altitude, the oxygen tension is lower so you retain more CO2, which keeps your cells in the stable oxidizing condition.
The higher CO2 facilitates brain oxidation. So dementia is in surveys in recent years, dementia is much lower at high altitude.
Dr. Peate, do you know of any benefits of living in a high rise, living on the top floor of some multi-story high rise?
One advantage is that the stuff over your head reacts with cosmic rays. The researchers used half an inch of lead as a roof, put it over rabbit cages, and those rabbits very quickly miscarried, were infertile, and developed degenerative diseases.
And they found that it was the tertiary cosmic rays caused by the high probability of a cosmic ray causing a nuclear reaction in the layer of lead.
Because they were slowed down enough to stop within them or not pass right through them?
One cosmic ray would produce a shower of intense secondary and tertiary radiation, which increased the toxicity the lower you are.
The nuclear industry talks about the danger of radiation flying across the country in an airplane, but actually the higher you are the less toxic the radiation is because the dense atmosphere at low altitude produces more secondary and tertiary cosmic rays similar to having the half inch of lead over your head.
So when you are on the bottom floor of a big building you are going to have a lot more of the tertiary toxic cosmic rays and less of the high altitude, high energy cosmic rays that go right through you without doing any harm.
Thanks for that explanation. There is one other caller. I don't know if this caller is really quick about his question, Dr. Peat, and if you've got a paragraph answer, I don't mean to cut you short of course because we love hearing what you've got to say, but it's three minutes too.
So caller, you're on the airwave from, what's your question?
From New York. I had a skin rash. I talked to Dr. Peat about it I think last call and he said sodium chloride bath, which I've done with kosher salt and also the dry CO2.
It's gone away, but it actually keeps coming back and I was just wondering if there's anything else because it sounds like it might be digestion or endotoxin related and I was just wondering other things that might be useful.
I did take acidophilus, casci and remnosis in a 100ml bottle with 50 billion units in the bottle, but I'm just wondering, am I on the right track?
What is it incrementally that I could do if I sort of comply with your regular diet recommendations?
Vitamin D and thyroid are the most important things I know of for skin problems.
Okay, and would you have to say A and D together, right?
Not necessarily. You don't want to overdo the vitamin A, but the vitamin D works both on the intestine to control the endotoxin and the skin reaction.
There's no serious interaction between vitamin D and vitamin A, but they're both important for the skin.
I'm afraid we're going to have to cut you short, Dr. Peat. Thanks so much for your time.
And for those people who've heard Dr. Peat this evening, maybe for the first time, go visit his website. It's www.raypeat.com.
He's got lots of articles written about many different diseases, conditions, etc.
All fully referenced, and he's got his unique perspective on it, which comes from objectively looking at research and not just buying in to the mainstream.
And he's been that way for the last 50 years, folks.
So a lot of what he said is being borne out now and will continue to be borne out as the web-based archives of this show and all the others that we've done over the last 10 years are there.
So thanks for your time. People calling in, appreciate you.
Dr. Peat, as always, thank you. And until the third Friday of next month, my name is Andrew Murray.